I'm sure you've created
something from scratch before.
I bet you realize how challenging it
can be as opposed to using pre made
components.
Think about the effort that goes into
building a brand new house versus
the convenience of constructing a modular
building with pre made components that you
just need to put together.
React is focused on
working with components,
which makes it simple to build functional
user interfaces on web and mobile.
And, since React is one of the most
popular JavaScript libraries,
it's important that you can
explain what its purposes and
describe how its components work together.
Available since 2013 React is an open
source library with a community of core
contributors and
companies that maintain it.
Developers use React to develop
single page applications and
you can also develop mobile
applications with React native.
When you develop an app, you can choose to
use React to develop the user interface.
But building an application
requires more than that.
You must also consider the navigation and
how the app will request
data from a web server.
Therefore React is used in conjunction
with other JavaScript libraries during
development.
But what makes React so
useful is that it allows developers to
write less code to create functionality.
This in turn makes it easier to
maintain code in the long term and
simplifies testing.
Because it is so
central to front end development,
there are many tools that
you can use with the React.
These tools can help you understand
how React is running your code and
how you can improve performance.
Now that you have a better idea of what
React is let me tell you more about Reacts
components.
The key concept behind
React is that it allows you
to define components that you can
combine to build a web application.
A component is basically a small piece of
user interface, such as a music player or
photo gallery.
This component model allows you to do
several things, such as developing and
testing parts of their application in
isolation and it also allows you to reuse
components across multiple sections
of the application as well.
Let's explore an example.
Most Web applications have
user profiles with pictures.
Normally several parts of the application
use a version of this profile picture,
such as in the navigation
bar beside the user's name.
It could also show in a user search result
along with several other user pictures and
the user picture might also display
an instant message notifications.
Instead of programming the logic for
every instance of a user profile picture
React allows you to create a user icon
component that displays a version of
a profile picture every time it is used.
You can then reuse this component
throughout the application.
Can you imagine how it will
improve your efficiency.
There are in fact many open source
libraries that provide pre made components
for React projects.
For example, if you want to add
a video player to your website,
there's a React component library for
that.
Well, maybe you want to embed a map.
There's a React component library for
that too.
As the React community grows bigger,
it continues to add new features and
improvements continuously.
Annual React conferences,
encourage community sharing and
introduce upcoming
developments in the library.
I hope that in the near future you
might be joining the React community as
an active member and
as a future React community member you
now know the React libraries purpose and
how its components work together to make
life easier for front end developers.
After all,
why build something from scratch if
the components are already there to use?